staging/src/k8s.io/sample-controller/README.md, before:

# sample-controller

This repository implements a simple controller for watching Foo resources as
defined with a CustomResourceDefinition (CRD).

**Note:** go-get or vendor this package as `k8s.io/sample-controller`.

This particular example demonstrates how to perform basic operations such as:

* How to register a new custom resource (custom resource type) of type `Foo` using a CustomResourceDefinition.
* How to create/get/list instances of your new resource type `Foo`.
* How to setup a controller on resource handling create/update/delete events.

It makes use of the generators in [k8s.io/code-generator](https://github.com/kubernetes/code-generator)
to generate a typed client, informers, listers and deep-copy functions. You can
do this yourself using the `./hack/update-codegen.sh` script.

The `update-codegen` script will automatically generate the following files &
directories:

* `pkg/apis/samplecontroller/v1alpha1/zz_generated.deepcopy.go`
* `pkg/client/`

Changes should not be made to these files manually, and when creating your own
controller based off of this implementation you should not copy these files and
instead run the `update-codegen` script to generate your own.

## Details

The sample controller uses [client-go library](https://github.com/kubernetes/client-go/tree/master/tools/cache) extensively.
The details of interaction points of the sample controller with various mechanisms from this library are
explained [here](docs/controller-client-go.md).


## Purpose

This is an example of how to build a kube-like controller with a single type.

## Running

**Prerequisite**: Since the sample-controller uses `apps/v1` deployments, the Kubernetes cluster version should be greater than 1.9.

```sh
# assumes you have a working kubeconfig, not required if operating in-cluster
$ go build -o sample-controller .
$ ./sample-controller -kubeconfig=$HOME/.kube/config

# create a CustomResourceDefinition
$ kubectl create -f artifacts/examples/crd.yaml

# create a custom resource of type Foo
$ kubectl create -f artifacts/examples/example-foo.yaml

# check deployments created through the custom resource
$ kubectl get deployments
```

## Use Cases

CustomResourceDefinitions can be used to implement custom resource types for your Kubernetes cluster.
These act like most other Resources in Kubernetes, and may be `kubectl apply`'d, etc.

Some example use cases:

* Provisioning/Management of external datastores/databases (eg. CloudSQL/RDS instances)
* Higher level abstractions around Kubernetes primitives (eg. a single Resource to define an etcd cluster, backed by a Service and a ReplicationController)

## Defining types

Each instance of your custom resource has an attached Spec, which should be defined via a `struct{}` to provide data format validation.
In practice, this Spec is arbitrary key-value data that specifies the configuration/behavior of your Resource.

For example, if you were implementing a custom resource for a Database, you might provide a DatabaseSpec like the following:

``` go
type DatabaseSpec struct {
	Databases []string `json:"databases"`
	Users     []User   `json:"users"`
	Version   string   `json:"version"`
}

type User struct {
	Name     string `json:"name"`
	Password string `json:"password"`
}
```

## Validation

To validate custom resources, use the [`CustomResourceValidation`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-kubernetes-api/extend-api-custom-resource-definitions/#validation) feature.

This feature is beta and enabled by default in v1.9.

### Example

The schema in [`crd-validation.yaml`](./artifacts/examples/crd-validation.yaml) applies the following validation on the custom resource:
`spec.replicas` must be an integer and must have a minimum value of 1 and a maximum value of 10.

In the above steps, use `crd-validation.yaml` to create the CRD:

```sh
# create a CustomResourceDefinition supporting validation
$ kubectl create -f artifacts/examples/crd-validation.yaml
```

## Subresources

Custom Resources support `/status` and `/scale` subresources as an
[alpha feature](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-kubernetes-api/extend-api-custom-resource-definitions/#subresources) in v1.10.
Enable this feature using the `CustomResourceSubresources` feature gate on the [kube-apiserver](https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/kube-apiserver):

```sh
--feature-gates=CustomResourceSubresources=true
```

### Example

The CRD in [`crd-status-subresource.yaml`](./artifacts/examples/crd-status-subresource.yaml) enables the `/status` subresource
for custom resources.
This means that [`UpdateStatus`](./controller.go#L330) can be used by the controller to update only the status part of the custom resource.

To understand why only the status part of the custom resource should be updated, please refer to the [Kubernetes API conventions](https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/api-conventions.md#spec-and-status).

In the above steps, use `crd-status-subresource.yaml` to create the CRD:

```sh
# create a CustomResourceDefinition supporting the status subresource
$ kubectl create -f artifacts/examples/crd-status-subresource.yaml
```

## Cleanup

You can clean up the created CustomResourceDefinition with:

    $ kubectl delete crd foos.samplecontroller.k8s.io

## Compatibility

HEAD of this repository will match HEAD of k8s.io/apimachinery and
k8s.io/client-go.

## Where does it come from?

`sample-controller` is synced from
https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/staging/src/k8s.io/sample-controller.
Code changes are made in that location, merged into k8s.io/kubernetes and
later synced here.

Commit message:

update sample-controller README
remind that CustomResourceSubresources is beta in v1.11 and enabled by default

staging/src/k8s.io/sample-controller/README.md, after:

# sample-controller

This repository implements a simple controller for watching Foo resources as
defined with a CustomResourceDefinition (CRD).

**Note:** go-get or vendor this package as `k8s.io/sample-controller`.

This particular example demonstrates how to perform basic operations such as:

* How to register a new custom resource (custom resource type) of type `Foo` using a CustomResourceDefinition.
* How to create/get/list instances of your new resource type `Foo`.
* How to setup a controller on resource handling create/update/delete events.

It makes use of the generators in [k8s.io/code-generator](https://github.com/kubernetes/code-generator)
to generate a typed client, informers, listers and deep-copy functions. You can
do this yourself using the `./hack/update-codegen.sh` script.

The `update-codegen` script will automatically generate the following files &
directories:

* `pkg/apis/samplecontroller/v1alpha1/zz_generated.deepcopy.go`
* `pkg/client/`

Changes should not be made to these files manually, and when creating your own
controller based off of this implementation you should not copy these files and
instead run the `update-codegen` script to generate your own.

## Details

The sample controller uses [client-go library](https://github.com/kubernetes/client-go/tree/master/tools/cache) extensively.
The details of interaction points of the sample controller with various mechanisms from this library are
explained [here](docs/controller-client-go.md).


## Purpose

This is an example of how to build a kube-like controller with a single type.

## Running

**Prerequisite**: Since the sample-controller uses `apps/v1` deployments, the Kubernetes cluster version should be greater than 1.9.

```sh
# assumes you have a working kubeconfig, not required if operating in-cluster
$ go build -o sample-controller .
$ ./sample-controller -kubeconfig=$HOME/.kube/config

# create a CustomResourceDefinition
$ kubectl create -f artifacts/examples/crd.yaml

# create a custom resource of type Foo
$ kubectl create -f artifacts/examples/example-foo.yaml

# check deployments created through the custom resource
$ kubectl get deployments
```

## Use Cases

CustomResourceDefinitions can be used to implement custom resource types for your Kubernetes cluster.
These act like most other Resources in Kubernetes, and may be `kubectl apply`'d, etc.

Some example use cases:

* Provisioning/Management of external datastores/databases (eg. CloudSQL/RDS instances)
* Higher level abstractions around Kubernetes primitives (eg. a single Resource to define an etcd cluster, backed by a Service and a ReplicationController)

## Defining types

Each instance of your custom resource has an attached Spec, which should be defined via a `struct{}` to provide data format validation.
In practice, this Spec is arbitrary key-value data that specifies the configuration/behavior of your Resource.

For example, if you were implementing a custom resource for a Database, you might provide a DatabaseSpec like the following:

``` go
type DatabaseSpec struct {
	Databases []string `json:"databases"`
	Users     []User   `json:"users"`
	Version   string   `json:"version"`
}

type User struct {
	Name     string `json:"name"`
	Password string `json:"password"`
}
```

## Validation

To validate custom resources, use the [`CustomResourceValidation`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-kubernetes-api/extend-api-custom-resource-definitions/#validation) feature.

This feature is beta and enabled by default in v1.9.

### Example

The schema in [`crd-validation.yaml`](./artifacts/examples/crd-validation.yaml) applies the following validation on the custom resource:
`spec.replicas` must be an integer and must have a minimum value of 1 and a maximum value of 10.

In the above steps, use `crd-validation.yaml` to create the CRD:

```sh
# create a CustomResourceDefinition supporting validation
$ kubectl create -f artifacts/examples/crd-validation.yaml
```

## Subresources

Custom Resources support `/status` and `/scale` subresources as a [beta feature](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-kubernetes-api/custom-resources/custom-resource-definitions/#subresources) in v1.11 and is enabled by default.
This feature is [alpha](https://v1-10.docs.kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-kubernetes-api/extend-api-custom-resource-definitions/#subresources) in v1.10 and to enable it you need to set the `CustomResourceSubresources` feature gate on the [kube-apiserver](https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/kube-apiserver):

```sh
--feature-gates=CustomResourceSubresources=true
```

### Example

The CRD in [`crd-status-subresource.yaml`](./artifacts/examples/crd-status-subresource.yaml) enables the `/status` subresource
for custom resources.
This means that [`UpdateStatus`](./controller.go#L330) can be used by the controller to update only the status part of the custom resource.

To understand why only the status part of the custom resource should be updated, please refer to the [Kubernetes API conventions](https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/api-conventions.md#spec-and-status).

In the above steps, use `crd-status-subresource.yaml` to create the CRD:

```sh
# create a CustomResourceDefinition supporting the status subresource
$ kubectl create -f artifacts/examples/crd-status-subresource.yaml
```

## Cleanup

You can clean up the created CustomResourceDefinition with:

    $ kubectl delete crd foos.samplecontroller.k8s.io

## Compatibility

HEAD of this repository will match HEAD of k8s.io/apimachinery and
k8s.io/client-go.

## Where does it come from?

`sample-controller` is synced from
https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/staging/src/k8s.io/sample-controller.
Code changes are made in that location, merged into k8s.io/kubernetes and
later synced here.
