staging/src/k8s.io/client-go/examples/in-cluster-client-configuration/README.md, before:

# Authenticating inside the cluster

This example shows you how to configure a client with client-go to authenticate
to the Kubernetes API from an application running inside the Kubernetes cluster.

client-go uses the [Service Account token][sa] mounted inside the Pod at the
`/var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount` path when the
`rest.InClusterConfig()` is used.

## Running this example

First compile the application for Linux:

    cd in-cluster-client-configuration
    GOOS=linux go build -o ./app .

Then package it to a docker image using the provided Dockerfile to run it on
Kubernetes.

If you are running a [Minikube][mk] cluster, you can build this image directly
on the Docker engine of the Minikube node without pushing it to a registry. To
build the image on Minikube:

    eval $(minikube docker-env)
    docker build -t in-cluster .

If you are not using Minikube, you should build this image and push it to a registry
that your Kubernetes cluster can pull from.

Then, run the image in a Pod with a single instance Deployment:

    $ kubectl run --rm -i demo --image=in-cluster --image-pull-policy=Never

    There are 4 pods in the cluster
    There are 4 pods in the cluster
    There are 4 pods in the cluster
    ...

The example now runs on Kubernetes API and successfully queries the number of
pods in the cluster every 10 seconds.

### Clean up

To stop this example and clean up the pod, press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>C</kbd> on
the `kubectl run` command and then run:

    kubectl delete deployment demo

[sa]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/authentication/#service-account-tokens
[mk]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/getting-started-guides/minikube/

Commit message:

Add missing step to in-cluster-client-configuration example
If the permissions are not setup correctly the example fails.

Change-Id: I167ef68be66f8b56740236ae475c3b7fdcc0dfb5

staging/src/k8s.io/client-go/examples/in-cluster-client-configuration/README.md, after:

# Authenticating inside the cluster

This example shows you how to configure a client with client-go to authenticate
to the Kubernetes API from an application running inside the Kubernetes cluster.

client-go uses the [Service Account token][sa] mounted inside the Pod at the
`/var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount` path when the
`rest.InClusterConfig()` is used.

## Running this example

First compile the application for Linux:

    cd in-cluster-client-configuration
    GOOS=linux go build -o ./app .

Then package it to a docker image using the provided Dockerfile to run it on
Kubernetes.

If you are running a [Minikube][mk] cluster, you can build this image directly
on the Docker engine of the Minikube node without pushing it to a registry. To
build the image on Minikube:

    eval $(minikube docker-env)
    docker build -t in-cluster .

If you are not using Minikube, you should build this image and push it to a registry
that your Kubernetes cluster can pull from. If you have RBAC enabled, use the following
snippet to create role binding which will grant the default service account view
permissions.

```
kubectl create clusterrolebinding default-view --clusterrole=view --serviceaccount=default:default
```

Then, run the image in a Pod with a single instance Deployment:

    $ kubectl run --rm -i demo --image=in-cluster --image-pull-policy=Never

    There are 4 pods in the cluster
    There are 4 pods in the cluster
    There are 4 pods in the cluster
    ...

The example now runs on Kubernetes API and successfully queries the number of
pods in the cluster every 10 seconds.

### Clean up

To stop this example and clean up the pod, press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>C</kbd> on
the `kubectl run` command and then run:

    kubectl delete deployment demo

[sa]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/authentication/#service-account-tokens
[mk]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/getting-started-guides/minikube/
