docs/devel/development.md, before:

<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->

<!-- BEGIN STRIP_FOR_RELEASE -->

<img src="http://kubernetes.io/kubernetes/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/kubernetes/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/kubernetes/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/kubernetes/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/kubernetes/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">

<h2>PLEASE NOTE: This document applies to the HEAD of the source tree</h2>

If you are using a released version of Kubernetes, you should
refer to the docs that go with that version.

<!-- TAG RELEASE_LINK, added by the munger automatically -->
<strong>
The latest release of this document can be found
[here](http://releases.k8s.io/release-1.4/docs/devel/development.md).

Documentation for other releases can be found at
[releases.k8s.io](http://releases.k8s.io).
</strong>
--

<!-- END STRIP_FOR_RELEASE -->

<!-- END MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->

# Development Guide

This document is intended to be the canonical source of truth for things like
supported toolchain versions for building Kubernetes. If you find a
requirement that this doc does not capture, please
[submit an issue](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues) on github. If
you find other docs with references to requirements that are not simply links to
this doc, please [submit an issue](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues).

This document is intended to be relative to the branch in which it is found.
It is guaranteed that requirements will change over time for the development
branch, but release branches of Kubernetes should not change.

## Building Kubernetes with Docker

Official releases are built using Docker containers. To build Kubernetes using
Docker please follow [these instructions]
(http://releases.k8s.io/HEAD/build-tools/README.md).

## Building Kubernetes on a local OS/shell environment

Many of the Kubernetes development helper scripts rely on a fairly up-to-date
GNU tools environment, so most recent Linux distros should work just fine
out-of-the-box. Note that Mac OS X ships with somewhat outdated BSD-based tools,
some of which may be incompatible in subtle ways, so we recommend
[replacing those with modern GNU tools]
(https://www.topbug.net/blog/2013/04/14/install-and-use-gnu-command-line-tools-in-mac-os-x/).

### Go development environment

Kubernetes is written in the [Go](http://golang.org) programming language.
To build Kubernetes without using Docker containers, you'll need a Go
development environment. Builds for Kubernetes 1.0 - 1.2 require Go version
1.4.2. Builds for Kubernetes 1.3 and higher require Go version 1.6.0. If you
haven't set up a Go development environment, please follow [these
instructions](http://golang.org/doc/code.html) to install the go tools.

Set up your GOPATH and add a path entry for go binaries to your PATH. Typically
added to your ~/.profile:

```sh
export GOPATH=$HOME/go
export PATH=$PATH:$GOPATH/bin
```

### Godep dependency management

Kubernetes build and test scripts use [godep](https://github.com/tools/godep) to
manage dependencies.

#### Install godep

Ensure that [mercurial](http://mercurial.selenic.com/wiki/Download) is
installed on your system. (some of godep's dependencies use the mercurial
source control system). Use `apt-get install mercurial` or `yum install
mercurial` on Linux, or [brew.sh](http://brew.sh) on OS X, or download directly
from mercurial.

Install godep and go-bindata (may require sudo):

```sh
go get -u github.com/tools/godep
go get -u github.com/jteeuwen/go-bindata/go-bindata
```

Note:
At this time, godep version >= v63 is known to work in the Kubernetes project.

To check your version of godep:

```sh
$ godep version
godep v74 (linux/amd64/go1.6.2)
```

Developers planning to managing dependencies in the `vendor/` tree may want to
explore alternative environment setups. See
[using godep to manage dependencies](godep.md).

### Local build using make

To build Kubernetes using your local Go development environment (generate linux
binaries):

```sh
        make
```

You may pass build options and packages to the script as necessary. For example,
to build with optimizations disabled for enabling use of source debug tools:

```sh
        make GOGCFLAGS="-N -l"
```

To build binaries for all platforms:

```sh
        make cross
```

### How to update the Go version used to test & build k8s

The kubernetes project tries to stay on the latest version of Go so it can
benefit from the improvements to the language over time and can easily
bump to a minor release version for security updates.

Since kubernetes is mostly built and tested in containers, there are a few
unique places you need to update the go version.

- The image for cross compiling in [build-tools/build-image/cross/](../../build-tools/build-image/cross/). The `VERSION` file and `Dockerfile`.
- Update [dockerized-e2e-runner.sh](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/blob/master/jenkins/dockerized-e2e-runner.sh) to run a kubekins-e2e with the desired go version, which requires pushing [e2e-image](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/tree/master/jenkins/e2e-image) and [test-image](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/tree/master/jenkins/test-image) images that are `FROM` the desired go version.
- The docker image being run in [hack/jenkins/gotest-dockerized.sh](../../hack/jenkins/gotest-dockerized.sh).
- The cross tag `KUBE_BUILD_IMAGE_CROSS_TAG` in [build-tools/common.sh](../../build-tools/common.sh)

## Workflow

Below, we outline one of the more common git workflows that core developers use.
Other git workflows are also valid.

### Visual overview

![Git workflow](git_workflow.png)

### Fork the main repository

1. Go to https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes
2. Click the "Fork" button (at the top right)

### Clone your fork

The commands below require that you have $GOPATH set ([$GOPATH
docs](https://golang.org/doc/code.html#GOPATH)). We highly recommend you put
Kubernetes' code into your GOPATH. Note: the commands below will not work if
there is more than one directory in your `$GOPATH`.

```sh
mkdir -p $GOPATH/src/k8s.io
cd $GOPATH/src/k8s.io
# Replace "$YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME" below with your github username
git clone https://github.com/$YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME/kubernetes.git
cd kubernetes
git remote add upstream 'https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes.git'
```

### Create a branch and make changes

```sh
git checkout -b my-feature
# Make your code changes
```

### Keeping your development fork in sync

```sh
git fetch upstream
git rebase upstream/master
```

Note: If you have write access to the main repository at
github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes, you should modify your git configuration so
that you can't accidentally push to upstream:

```sh
git remote set-url --push upstream no_push
```

### Committing changes to your fork

Before committing any changes, please link/copy the pre-commit hook into your
.git directory. This will keep you from accidentally committing non-gofmt'd Go
code. This hook will also do a build and test whether documentation generation
scripts need to be executed.

The hook requires both Godep and etcd on your `PATH`.

```sh
cd kubernetes/.git/hooks/
ln -s ../../hooks/pre-commit .
```

Then you can commit your changes and push them to your fork:

```sh
git commit
git push -f origin my-feature
```

### Creating a pull request

1. Visit https://github.com/$YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME/kubernetes
2. Click the "Compare & pull request" button next to your "my-feature" branch.
3. Check out the pull request [process](pull-requests.md) for more details

**Note:** If you have write access, please refrain from using the GitHub UI for creating PRs, because GitHub will create the PR branch inside the main repository rather than inside your fork.

### When to retain commits and when to squash

Upon merge, all git commits should represent meaningful milestones or units of
work.  Use commits to add clarity to the development and review process.

Before merging a PR, squash any "fix review feedback", "typo", and "rebased"
sorts of commits. It is not imperative that every commit in a PR compile and
pass tests independently, but it is worth striving for. For mass automated
fixups (e.g. automated doc formatting), use one or more commits for the
changes to tooling and a final commit to apply the fixup en masse. This makes
reviews much easier.

See [Faster Reviews](faster_reviews.md) for more details.


## Testing

Three basic commands let you run unit, integration and/or e2e tests:

```sh
cd kubernetes
make test # Run every unit test
make test WHAT=pkg/util/cache GOFLAGS=-v # Run tests of a package verbosely
make test-integration # Run integration tests, requires etcd
make test-e2e # Run e2e tests
```

See the [testing guide](testing.md) and [end-to-end tests](e2e-tests.md) for additional information and scenarios.

## Regenerating the CLI documentation

```sh
hack/update-generated-docs.sh
```




<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->
[![Analytics](https://kubernetes-site.appspot.com/UA-36037335-10/GitHub/docs/devel/development.md?pixel)]()
<!-- END MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->

Commit message:

Add reviewable notes to CONTRIBUTING

docs/devel/development.md, after:

<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->

<!-- BEGIN STRIP_FOR_RELEASE -->

<img src="http://kubernetes.io/kubernetes/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/kubernetes/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/kubernetes/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/kubernetes/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/kubernetes/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">

<h2>PLEASE NOTE: This document applies to the HEAD of the source tree</h2>

If you are using a released version of Kubernetes, you should
refer to the docs that go with that version.

<!-- TAG RELEASE_LINK, added by the munger automatically -->
<strong>
The latest release of this document can be found
[here](http://releases.k8s.io/release-1.4/docs/devel/development.md).

Documentation for other releases can be found at
[releases.k8s.io](http://releases.k8s.io).
</strong>
--

<!-- END STRIP_FOR_RELEASE -->

<!-- END MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->

# Development Guide

This document is intended to be the canonical source of truth for things like
supported toolchain versions for building Kubernetes. If you find a
requirement that this doc does not capture, please
[submit an issue](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues) on github. If
you find other docs with references to requirements that are not simply links to
this doc, please [submit an issue](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues).

This document is intended to be relative to the branch in which it is found.
It is guaranteed that requirements will change over time for the development
branch, but release branches of Kubernetes should not change.

## Building Kubernetes with Docker

Official releases are built using Docker containers. To build Kubernetes using
Docker please follow [these instructions]
(http://releases.k8s.io/HEAD/build-tools/README.md).

## Building Kubernetes on a local OS/shell environment

Many of the Kubernetes development helper scripts rely on a fairly up-to-date
GNU tools environment, so most recent Linux distros should work just fine
out-of-the-box. Note that Mac OS X ships with somewhat outdated BSD-based tools,
some of which may be incompatible in subtle ways, so we recommend
[replacing those with modern GNU tools]
(https://www.topbug.net/blog/2013/04/14/install-and-use-gnu-command-line-tools-in-mac-os-x/).

### Go development environment

Kubernetes is written in the [Go](http://golang.org) programming language.
To build Kubernetes without using Docker containers, you'll need a Go
development environment. Builds for Kubernetes 1.0 - 1.2 require Go version
1.4.2. Builds for Kubernetes 1.3 and higher require Go version 1.6.0. If you
haven't set up a Go development environment, please follow [these
instructions](http://golang.org/doc/code.html) to install the go tools.

Set up your GOPATH and add a path entry for go binaries to your PATH. Typically
added to your ~/.profile:

```sh
export GOPATH=$HOME/go
export PATH=$PATH:$GOPATH/bin
```

### Godep dependency management

Kubernetes build and test scripts use [godep](https://github.com/tools/godep) to
manage dependencies.

#### Install godep

Ensure that [mercurial](http://mercurial.selenic.com/wiki/Download) is
installed on your system. (some of godep's dependencies use the mercurial
source control system). Use `apt-get install mercurial` or `yum install
mercurial` on Linux, or [brew.sh](http://brew.sh) on OS X, or download directly
from mercurial.

Install godep and go-bindata (may require sudo):

```sh
go get -u github.com/tools/godep
go get -u github.com/jteeuwen/go-bindata/go-bindata
```

Note:
At this time, godep version >= v63 is known to work in the Kubernetes project.

To check your version of godep:

```sh
$ godep version
godep v74 (linux/amd64/go1.6.2)
```

Developers planning to managing dependencies in the `vendor/` tree may want to
explore alternative environment setups. See
[using godep to manage dependencies](godep.md).

### Local build using make

To build Kubernetes using your local Go development environment (generate linux
binaries):

```sh
        make
```

You may pass build options and packages to the script as necessary. For example,
to build with optimizations disabled for enabling use of source debug tools:

```sh
        make GOGCFLAGS="-N -l"
```

To build binaries for all platforms:

```sh
        make cross
```

### How to update the Go version used to test & build k8s

The kubernetes project tries to stay on the latest version of Go so it can
benefit from the improvements to the language over time and can easily
bump to a minor release version for security updates.

Since kubernetes is mostly built and tested in containers, there are a few
unique places you need to update the go version.

- The image for cross compiling in [build-tools/build-image/cross/](../../build-tools/build-image/cross/). The `VERSION` file and `Dockerfile`.
- Update [dockerized-e2e-runner.sh](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/blob/master/jenkins/dockerized-e2e-runner.sh) to run a kubekins-e2e with the desired go version, which requires pushing [e2e-image](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/tree/master/jenkins/e2e-image) and [test-image](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/tree/master/jenkins/test-image) images that are `FROM` the desired go version.
- The docker image being run in [hack/jenkins/gotest-dockerized.sh](../../hack/jenkins/gotest-dockerized.sh).
- The cross tag `KUBE_BUILD_IMAGE_CROSS_TAG` in [build-tools/common.sh](../../build-tools/common.sh)

## Workflow

Below, we outline one of the more common git workflows that core developers use.
Other git workflows are also valid.

### Visual overview

![Git workflow](git_workflow.png)

### Fork the main repository

1. Go to https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes
2. Click the "Fork" button (at the top right)

### Clone your fork

The commands below require that you have $GOPATH set ([$GOPATH
docs](https://golang.org/doc/code.html#GOPATH)). We highly recommend you put
Kubernetes' code into your GOPATH. Note: the commands below will not work if
there is more than one directory in your `$GOPATH`.

```sh
mkdir -p $GOPATH/src/k8s.io
cd $GOPATH/src/k8s.io
# Replace "$YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME" below with your github username
git clone https://github.com/$YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME/kubernetes.git
cd kubernetes
git remote add upstream 'https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes.git'
```

### Create a branch and make changes

```sh
git checkout -b my-feature
# Make your code changes
```

### Keeping your development fork in sync

```sh
git fetch upstream
git rebase upstream/master
```

Note: If you have write access to the main repository at
github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes, you should modify your git configuration so
that you can't accidentally push to upstream:

```sh
git remote set-url --push upstream no_push
```

### Committing changes to your fork

Before committing any changes, please link/copy the pre-commit hook into your
.git directory. This will keep you from accidentally committing non-gofmt'd Go
code. This hook will also do a build and test whether documentation generation
scripts need to be executed.

The hook requires both Godep and etcd on your `PATH`.

```sh
cd kubernetes/.git/hooks/
ln -s ../../hooks/pre-commit .
```

Then you can commit your changes and push them to your fork:

```sh
git commit
git push -f origin my-feature
```

### Creating a pull request

1. Visit https://github.com/$YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME/kubernetes
2. Click the "Compare & pull request" button next to your "my-feature" branch.
3. Check out the pull request [process](pull-requests.md) for more details

**Note:** If you have write access, please refrain from using the GitHub UI for creating PRs, because GitHub will create the PR branch inside the main repository rather than inside your fork.

### Getting a code review

Once your pull request has been opened it will be assigned to one or more
reviewers.  Those reviewers will do a thorough code review, looking for
correctness, bugs, opportunities for improvement, documentation and comments,
and style.

Very small PRs are easy to review.  Very large PRs are very difficult to
review.  Github has a built-in code review tool, which is what most people use.
At the assigned reviewer's discretion, a PR may be switched to use
[Reviewable](https://reviewable.k8s.io) instead.  Once a PR is switched to
Reviewable, please ONLY send or reply to comments through reviewable.  Mixing
code review tools can be very confusing.

See [Faster Reviews](faster_reviews.md) for some thoughts on how to streamline
the review process.

### When to retain commits and when to squash

Upon merge, all git commits should represent meaningful milestones or units of
work.  Use commits to add clarity to the development and review process.

Before merging a PR, squash any "fix review feedback", "typo", and "rebased"
sorts of commits. It is not imperative that every commit in a PR compile and
pass tests independently, but it is worth striving for. For mass automated
fixups (e.g. automated doc formatting), use one or more commits for the
changes to tooling and a final commit to apply the fixup en masse. This makes
reviews much easier.

## Testing

Three basic commands let you run unit, integration and/or e2e tests:

```sh
cd kubernetes
make test # Run every unit test
make test WHAT=pkg/util/cache GOFLAGS=-v # Run tests of a package verbosely
make test-integration # Run integration tests, requires etcd
make test-e2e # Run e2e tests
```

See the [testing guide](testing.md) and [end-to-end tests](e2e-tests.md) for additional information and scenarios.

## Regenerating the CLI documentation

```sh
hack/update-generated-docs.sh
```




<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->
[![Analytics](https://kubernetes-site.appspot.com/UA-36037335-10/GitHub/docs/devel/development.md?pixel)]()
<!-- END MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->
